video one candle tomato video - coming
up banana bottle this is the Phantom V
25:11 this is the ultra slow motion
workhorse for smarter everyday and
sometimes on the slow mo guys this
camera can record at two-thirds of a
million frames per second but you'll
notice there's no microphone on it so
the question we always get in the
comments is how do you record sound so
slow do you do it at an ultrasonic
frequency or something like that and the
answer is no welcome back to the garage
where we shoot stuff and do fun things
there's a question I always get on
smarter every day when I do a
slow-motion video and it's how did you
record the sound did you record the
sound with the camera and then play it
back a lot of people don't realize that
when you're recording with slow motion
it's just images so today I'm Gordon
from Canada the guy that does all the
magic with a slow motion is actually
here thank you for coming Gordon for
having me all right so I'm gonna
challenge you today you up for that yeah
so you know nothing about what we're
gonna do correct
no okay so we have a gun we've got some
stuff here I'm gonna record several
things in slow motion and then let
Gordon walk you through what it's like
to design slow motion sound because you
do that for pretty much every
smartereveryday with slow motion right
yeah yeah and you're good at it unless
there's good voice over over top or
something yeah yeah okay cool so
challenge number one a rifle going to be
putting out a candle what do you think
about that that would be great
so we are gonna record the sound because
one of the questions we always get is
can you just record the sounds real time
and slow it down the answer is no which
we'll explain later
three two one oh it didn't go out that
makes your sound harder yeah okay it
moved like the flame move but it didn't
go out so you can make sound for that
right we can make sense for that
oh wait look at that it went all the way
out go all the way out that was high
speed challenge number one
rollin what are you doing well so we're
doing some science yeah I thought we
could probably learn a lot of things by
coring this tomato and putting an M 90
in it which is ten bigger than an m-80
what are these units do you know so this
is the M 90
I didn't even know in 90s or a thing
neither did I all right
they're super legal in Canada really
well probably not super I've I have
messed around with them but I think they
were brought up from Mexico somehow we
did it
we need to protect ourselves from the oh
wow so you're just gonna I'm gonna get
it right in there
oh the fuse coming out the top though I
print do we have to be careful not to
wet the fuse probably I orders gunpowder
not care I don't think he cares okay so
what are you doing here oh oh you're
gonna you're gonna put it out the top
yeah I want it and you're gonna put the
plug back in the bottom I guess we could
huh
I came to Alabama for new experiences
it's like a birthday tomato
we think yeah nothing about dates there
okay
or how like how much the tomato's gonna
cushion the blow
do you want me to do it I'll totally do
it you guys are around a lot more
exploding things than me and if you
think that is a safe I'll go first and
you gotta promise me you're gonna make
amazing slow-mo sound for this I'll
spend a little extra time on this really
yeah promise okay thanks here we go it's
like nothing hit me yeah oh that's great
that's awesome it's gonna look good and
it was st. you have a seed right on your
face very good okay so how are you gonna
make the sounds for that I mean we'll
probably use some tomato sounds oh holy
cow awesome do a little more than just
Tomatoes Sam so what would you do with
the light I don't know we could probably
get creative I think like a like I
really encapsulated sort of occluded
concussion like a like a sort of sort of
thing oh really cool and it will record
slow tomato sounds that are more met
they're gonna match the footage a bit
better so you record that tomato sounds
and then when there's another tomato and
we'll just like squish it up and throw
it around and manipulate it yeah yeah
yeah let me nice add a bunch of
processing reverb pitch it down why do
you throw what you pitch it down so it
feels slow yeah yeah huh is that just a
psycho acoustically that's what we want
it's at this part in the process where I
have to get the slow-motion files off of
the flash that's here on the camera
downloaded and then push it over the
internet to Gordon and let him work his
magic for the first video the candle
Gordon has all the sounds he needs in a
library a previously recorded stuff so
he simply watches the video and he lays
these sounds down on the track as he
sees fit however when he does new stuff
like the tomato exploding sometimes
he has to record new sounds and he was
so gracious as to record this incredibly
complicated and precise process for us
the tomato I'm not actually going to use
the tomato was a technical reason for
that and he's an orange and that's
because I looked in the fridge and I
didn't have it's made up and I thought I
did and the grocery stores closed so
we're gonna use an orange it's another
very juicy fruit squished tomatoes
before us scorched oranges before
they're pretty much the same thing when
it comes to sound believe it or not I
was I was one of the smart kids at the
school after he's recorded the new
sounds they're edited then they're
cleaned up for imperfections in them
brought into the session they're cut to
the picture and then they're processed
as one overall sound then after he
finishes all the magic this is the final
product
[Music]
[Applause]
all right I hope you enjoyed this
episode of smarter every day it was
sponsored by an audible I love audible
audiobooks it'll helps me reclaim my
commute and get smarter while I'm doing
it
you really should be listening to
audiobooks and audible is the best way
to do that you can go to audible.com
slash smarter get any free book you want
as a trial but I recommend this one
letters to a young scientist by EO
Wilson he's a Pulitzer prize-winning
biologist that's taught at Harvard for
years it's a great book if you're a
young person and you're getting into the
sciences go check out letters to a young
scientist by EO Wilson the way you can
get this is going to audible.com slash
smarter or there's actually a new way if
you text the words smarter to the phone
number 500 500 and they will reply with
a link so that you can sign up for a
free trial it's awesome anyway that's
pretty cool really neat way to do that
so audible.com slash smarter or tech
smarter - 500 500 and if you want to see
all the books that I like I'll leave a
link down in the video description so
you can check that out this was video
one of two the next one is gonna be
banana bottle so I hope you stick around
and maybe subscribe so you can see that
I'm Destin you're getting smarter every
day have a good one oh it's the Audion
recording what's happening that's so
scary